12
Definition of a system
A system is a combination of software and hardware that provides a solution for a business problem.
What does a system contain?
A system generally contains clients, analysts, designers, developers, testers, users and others (e.g. lawyers, communications officers, specialists etc)
Measuring success
Success may be measured by answering the following questions: Does the project solve what it was meant to solve? Is it easy to maintain and administer? Is it scalable to meet the needs of the client? Is there a successful support system in place for the client? Was it delivered on time and ready to go? Was the client happy with the finished product?
Familiar Projects
Movie - script and storyboard, Science experiment - scientific method, Construction - blueprint.
Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
Creating high-quality software involves organization, planning and utilizing various diagrammatic conventions. Computer scientists have created a view of the software development process known as "Software Development Life Cycle". One method is known as the "waterfall model".
Waterfall Model
Waterfall Model is developed by Dr Winston Royce in 1970 based on his experience developing software for spacecraft mission planning.
Phases of Waterfall Model
Problem Statement ----> Analysis ----> Design ----> Implementation ----> Integration/Test ----> Maintenance
Cost in SDLC
The cost of developing software is not spread equally over the phases. Mistakes found early in the SDLC are much less expensive to correct than those found later.
Examples of Project Management Tools
Gantt Chart, UML, Daily Log, Weekly Reports.
Gantt Chart
Gantt Chart is developed by mechanical engineer Henry Gantt in the 1910's. This tool is typically used by people working on a large project like Hoover Dam or Eisenhower National Defense Interstate Highway System. It helps project managers to visualize, schedule, and track scheduled as well as actual progress of projects.
Unified Modeling Language (UML)
Unified Modeling Language visually specifies parts of a system. Complex software designs are much more easily described through UML than textually. UML can be complicated to learn.
Java Archive (JAR)
A Java Archive is a compressed, executable file with a .jar extension. Java programs can be built, and this build process is what creates the JAR file. JAR file allows us to easily share our programs with other people.